PCSM-176-Add-finalization-section-to-/status-response (#59)
percona/pcsm-docs: docs/install/usage.md

For general `/status` endpoint details, see the [{{pcsm.short}} HTTP API](../api.md). The example below shows the finalization-specific fields returned after finalization completes.

??? example "Example: Finalize completed with one failed index"

    ```{.json .no-copy}
    {
      "ok": true,
      "state": "finalized",
      "info": "Finalized",
      "lagTimeSeconds": 0,
      "eventsRead": 1234,
      "eventsApplied": 1234,
      "initialSync": {
        "completed": true,
        "cloneCompleted": true,
        "clonedSizeBytes": 1073741824
      },
      "finalization": {
        "completed": true,
        "startedAt": "2026-05-07T10:30:00Z",
        "completedAt": "2026-05-07T10:30:42Z",
        "unsuccessfulIndexes": [
          {
            "namespace": "mydb.users",
            "indexName": "email_unique_idx",
            "type": "failed",
            "reason": "recreate index mydb.users.email_unique_idx: duplicate key error",
            "keys": {"email": 1}
          }
        ]
      }
    }
    ```
    
The `unsuccessfulIndexes` array will not appear if there are no unsuccessful indexes.

> #### Unsuccessful indexes

Reviewer: For unsuccessful it is important to note:
- finalize will try to recreate `failed` and `incomplete` indexes
- finalize will skip `inconsistent` indexes

We will report `unsuccessfulIndexes` in the status only after the retry fails.

Other than this this looks good to me.

Author: @inelpandzic I have fixed it.

The `unsuccessfulIndexes` array lists indexes that could not be finalized successfully on the target cluster. During finalization, PCSM retries the creation of `failed` and `incomplete` indexes, while `inconsistent` indexes are skipped. Only indexes that remain unsuccessful after these retry attempts are reported in the `unsuccessfulIndexes` array. Each entry contains:

| **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
|---|---|---|
| `namespace` | string | The MongoDB namespace containing the index, in `database.collection` format. |
| `indexName` | string | The index name as registered in the data store. |
| `keys` | object | Key specification: field names mapped to their sort order or index type. |
| `type` | string | Machine-readable problem category. |

> | `reason` | string | Human-readable explanation of what was observed during this finalize attempt. |

Reviewer 2: nit: sub-field order here doesnt match the wire order or `api.md`. What's actually encoded is `namespace, indexName, type, keys, reason`. This table is `namespace, indexName, keys, type, reason` and `api.md` L182-186 is a third order again. Let's align these.

The `type` field can contain the following values:

| **Type** | **Reason** |  **What it means** |
|---|---|---|
| `failed` | MongoDB error message (not stable) | The index build was attempted and encountered an error and could not be completed successfully. As a result, the index is not available in a usable state on the target cluster. |

> | `incomplete` | `"Index build did not complete"` | The index build was still in progress on the source cluster during the clone phase. Because the build had not finished, PCSM could not clone a complete and consistent version of the index to the target cluster. As a result, the index is reported as `incomplete` and is not cloned on the target.|

Reviewer 2: This reason string doesnt match the code. "Index build did not complete" was never a value that we used in code. Not even in historical commit on the PR. The only static incomplete reason that ever existed was `index build was still in progress on source during clone`, and that got removed in a follow-up commit.

Incomplete indexes are retried in finalize now and only land in unsuccessfulIndexes when the retry fails, at which point the reason is the dynamic error from the recreate attempt, same as the failed row. This row should mirror failed: reason is `MongoDB error message (not stable)`.

Author: Fixed

> | `inconsistent` | `"Index exists on source but not on target"` | Indexes that exist on some shards but are missing on others, or whose builds fail on certain shards because of conflicting or invalid data.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `inconsistent` | `index is missing on one or more source shards` | Indexes that exist on some shards but are missing on others. |

```
